docs/user-guides/devcontainers/index.md, before:

# Dev Containers Integration

The Dev Containers integration enables seamless creation and management of dev
containers in Coder workspaces. This feature leverages the
[`@devcontainers/cli`](https://github.com/devcontainers/cli) and
[Docker](https://www.docker.com) to provide a streamlined development
experience.

## Prerequisites

- Coder version 2.24.0 or later
- Docker available inside your workspace
- The `@devcontainers/cli` installed in your workspace

Dev Containers integration is enabled by default. Your workspace needs Docker
(via Docker-in-Docker or a mounted socket) and the devcontainers CLI. Most
templates with Dev Containers support include both—see
[Configure a template for dev containers](../../admin/templates/extending-templates/devcontainers.md)
for setup details.

## Features

- Automatic dev container detection from repositories
- Seamless container startup during workspace initialization
- Change detection with dirty state indicators
- On-demand container rebuild via dashboard button
- Integrated IDE experience with VS Code
- Direct SSH access to containers
- Automatic port detection

## Getting started

### 1. Add a devcontainer.json

Add a `devcontainer.json` file to your repository. This file defines your
development environment. You can place it in:

- `.devcontainer/devcontainer.json` (recommended)
- `.devcontainer.json` (root of repository)
- `.devcontainer/<folder>/devcontainer.json` (for multiple configurations)

The third option allows monorepos to define multiple dev container
configurations in separate sub-folders. See the
[Dev Container specification](https://containers.dev/implementors/spec/#devcontainerjson)
for details.

Here's a minimal example:

```json
{
  "name": "My Dev Container",
  "image": "mcr.microsoft.com/devcontainers/base:ubuntu"
}
```

For more configuration options, see the
[Dev Container specification](https://containers.dev/).

### 2. Start your dev container

Coder automatically discovers dev container configurations in your repositories
and displays them in your workspace dashboard. From there, you can start a dev
container with a single click.

If your template administrator has configured automatic startup (via the
`coder_devcontainer` Terraform resource or autostart settings), your dev
container will build and start automatically when the workspace starts.

### 3. Connect to your dev container

Once running, your dev container appears as a sub-agent in your workspace
dashboard. You can connect via:

- **Web terminal** in the Coder dashboard
- **SSH** using `coder ssh <workspace>.<agent>`
- **VS Code** using the "Open in VS Code Desktop" button

See [Working with dev containers](./working-with-dev-containers.md) for detailed
connection instructions.

## How it works

The Dev Containers integration uses the `devcontainer` command from
[`@devcontainers/cli`](https://github.com/devcontainers/cli) to manage
containers within your Coder workspace.

When a workspace with Dev Containers integration starts:

1. The workspace initializes the Docker environment.
1. The integration detects repositories with dev container configurations.
1. The integration builds and starts the dev container.
1. Coder creates a sub-agent for the container, enabling direct access.

### Agent naming

Each dev container gets its own agent name, derived from the workspace folder
path. For example, a dev container with workspace folder `/home/coder/my-app`
will have an agent named `my-app`.

Agent names are sanitized to contain only lowercase alphanumeric characters and
hyphens. You can also set a
[custom agent name](./customizing-dev-containers.md#custom-agent-name)
in your `devcontainer.json`.

## Limitations

- **Linux and macOS only** — Dev Containers are not supported on Windows
  workspaces
- Changes to `devcontainer.json` require manual rebuild using the dashboard
  button
- The `forwardPorts` property in `devcontainer.json` with `host:port` syntax
  (e.g., `"db:5432"`) for Docker Compose sidecar containers is not yet
  supported. For single-container dev containers, use `coder port-forward` to
  access ports directly on the sub-agent.
- Some advanced dev container features may have limited support

> [!NOTE]
> If your template uses Envbuilder rather than Docker-based dev containers, see
> the [Envbuilder documentation](../../admin/templates/managing-templates/envbuilder/index.md).

## Next steps

- [Working with dev containers](./working-with-dev-containers.md) — SSH, IDE
  integration, and port forwarding
- [Customizing dev containers](./customizing-dev-containers.md) — Custom agent
  names, apps, and display options
- [Troubleshooting dev containers](./troubleshooting-dev-containers.md) —
  Diagnose common issues
- [Dev Container specification](https://containers.dev/) — Advanced
  configuration options
- [Dev Container features](https://containers.dev/features) — Enhance your
  environment with pre-built tools

Commit message:

docs: clarify discovery behavior and improve cross-references
- Explain discovery scans working directory for Git repos
- Cross-reference standard devcontainer.json locations instead of repeating
- Clarify 'How it works' steps depend on auto-start configuration
- Add link to admin docs for autostart env var
- Fix 'Currently available' phrasing to avoid staleness

docs/user-guides/devcontainers/index.md, after:

# Dev Containers Integration

The Dev Containers integration enables seamless creation and management of dev
containers in Coder workspaces. This feature leverages the
[`@devcontainers/cli`](https://github.com/devcontainers/cli) and
[Docker](https://www.docker.com) to provide a streamlined development
experience.

## Prerequisites

- Coder version 2.24.0 or later
- Docker available inside your workspace
- The `@devcontainers/cli` installed in your workspace

Dev Containers integration is enabled by default. Your workspace needs Docker
(via Docker-in-Docker or a mounted socket) and the devcontainers CLI. Most
templates with Dev Containers support include both—see
[Configure a template for dev containers](../../admin/templates/extending-templates/devcontainers.md)
for setup details.

## Features

- Automatic dev container detection from repositories
- Seamless container startup during workspace initialization
- Change detection with dirty state indicators
- On-demand container rebuild via dashboard button
- Integrated IDE experience with VS Code
- Direct SSH access to containers
- Automatic port detection

## Getting started

### 1. Add a devcontainer.json

Add a `devcontainer.json` file to your repository. This file defines your
development environment. You can place it in:

- `.devcontainer/devcontainer.json` (recommended)
- `.devcontainer.json` (root of repository)
- `.devcontainer/<folder>/devcontainer.json` (for multiple configurations)

The third option allows monorepos to define multiple dev container
configurations in separate sub-folders. See the
[Dev Container specification](https://containers.dev/implementors/spec/#devcontainerjson)
for details.

Here's a minimal example:

```json
{
  "name": "My Dev Container",
  "image": "mcr.microsoft.com/devcontainers/base:ubuntu"
}
```

For more configuration options, see the
[Dev Container specification](https://containers.dev/).

### 2. Start your dev container

Coder automatically discovers dev container configurations in your repositories
and displays them in your workspace dashboard. From there, you can start a dev
container with a single click.

If your template administrator has configured automatic startup (via the
`coder_devcontainer` Terraform resource or autostart settings), your dev
container will build and start automatically when the workspace starts.

### 3. Connect to your dev container

Once running, your dev container appears as a sub-agent in your workspace
dashboard. You can connect via:

- **Web terminal** in the Coder dashboard
- **SSH** using `coder ssh <workspace>.<agent>`
- **VS Code** using the "Open in VS Code Desktop" button

See [Working with dev containers](./working-with-dev-containers.md) for detailed
connection instructions.

## How it works

The Dev Containers integration uses the `devcontainer` command from
[`@devcontainers/cli`](https://github.com/devcontainers/cli) to manage
containers within your Coder workspace.

When a workspace with Dev Containers integration starts:

1. The workspace initializes the Docker environment.
1. The integration detects repositories with dev container configurations.
1. Detected dev containers appear in the Coder dashboard.
1. If auto-start is configured (via `coder_devcontainer` or autostart settings),
   the integration builds and starts the dev container automatically.
1. Coder creates a sub-agent for the running container, enabling direct access.

Without auto-start, users can manually start discovered dev containers from the
dashboard.

### Agent naming

Each dev container gets its own agent name, derived from the workspace folder
path. For example, a dev container with workspace folder `/home/coder/my-app`
will have an agent named `my-app`.

Agent names are sanitized to contain only lowercase alphanumeric characters and
hyphens. You can also set a
[custom agent name](./customizing-dev-containers.md#custom-agent-name)
in your `devcontainer.json`.

## Limitations

- **Linux and macOS only** — Dev Containers are not supported on Windows
  workspaces
- Changes to `devcontainer.json` require manual rebuild using the dashboard
  button
- The `forwardPorts` property in `devcontainer.json` with `host:port` syntax
  (e.g., `"db:5432"`) for Docker Compose sidecar containers is not yet
  supported. For single-container dev containers, use `coder port-forward` to
  access ports directly on the sub-agent.
- Some advanced dev container features may have limited support

> [!NOTE]
> If your template uses Envbuilder rather than Docker-based dev containers, see
> the [Envbuilder documentation](../../admin/templates/managing-templates/envbuilder/index.md).

## Next steps

- [Working with dev containers](./working-with-dev-containers.md) — SSH, IDE
  integration, and port forwarding
- [Customizing dev containers](./customizing-dev-containers.md) — Custom agent
  names, apps, and display options
- [Troubleshooting dev containers](./troubleshooting-dev-containers.md) —
  Diagnose common issues
- [Dev Container specification](https://containers.dev/) — Advanced
  configuration options
- [Dev Container features](https://containers.dev/features) — Enhance your
  environment with pre-built tools
