# Authentication

By default, Coder is accessible via password authentication. Coder does not
recommend using password authentication in production, and recommends using an
authentication provider with properly configured multi-factor authentication
(MFA). It is your responsibility to ensure the auth provider enforces MFA
correctly.

The following steps explain how to set up GitHub OAuth or OpenID Connect.

## GitHub

### Step 1: Configure the OAuth application in GitHub

First, [register a GitHub OAuth app](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/). GitHub will ask you for the following Coder parameters:

- **Homepage URL**: Set to your Coder domain (e.g. `https://coder.domain.com`)
- **User Authorization Callback URL**: Set to `https://coder.domain.com/api/v2/users/oauth2/github/callback`

Note the Client ID and Client Secret generated by GitHub. You will use these
values in the next step.

### Step 2: Configure Coder with the OAuth credentials

Navigate to your Coder host and run the following command to start up the Coder
server:

```console
coder server --oauth2-github-allow-signups=true --oauth2-github-allowed-orgs="your-org" --oauth2-github-client-id="8d1...e05" --oauth2-github-client-secret="57ebc9...02c24c"
```

> For GitHub Enterprise support, specify the `--oauth2-github-enterprise-base-url` flag.

Alternatively, if you are running Coder as a system service, you can achieve the
same result as the command above by adding the following environment variables
to the `/etc/coder.d/coder.env` file:

```console
CODER_OAUTH2_GITHUB_ALLOW_SIGNUPS=true
CODER_OAUTH2_GITHUB_ALLOWED_ORGS="your-org"
CODER_OAUTH2_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID="8d1...e05"
CODER_OAUTH2_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET="57ebc9...02c24c"
```

**Note:** To allow everyone to signup using GitHub, set:

```console
CODER_OAUTH2_GITHUB_ALLOW_EVERYONE=true
```

Once complete, run `sudo service coder restart` to reboot Coder.

If deploying Coder via Helm, you can set the above environment variables in the
`values.yaml` file as such:

```yaml
coder:
  env:
    - name: CODER_OAUTH2_GITHUB_ALLOW_SIGNUPS
      value: true
    - name: CODER_OAUTH2_GITHUB_ALLOWED_ORGS
      value: "your-org"
    - name: CODER_OAUTH2_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID
      value: "533...des"
    - name: CODER_OAUTH2_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET
      value: "G0CSP...7qSM"
    - name: CODER_OAUTH2_GITHUB_ALLOW_EVERYONE
      value: true
```

To upgrade Coder, run:

```console
helm upgrade <release-name> coder-v2/coder -n <namespace> -f values.yaml
```

> We recommend requiring and auditing MFA usage for all users in your GitHub
> organizations. This can be enforced from the organization settings page in the
> "Authentication security" sidebar tab.

## OpenID Connect

The following steps through how to integrate any OpenID Connect provider (Okta, Active Directory, etc.) to Coder.

### Step 1: Set Redirect URI with your OIDC provider

Your OIDC provider will ask you for the following parameter:

- **Redirect URI**: Set to `https://coder.domain.com/api/v2/users/oidc/callback`

### Step 2: Configure Coder with the OpenID Connect credentials

Navigate to your Coder host and run the following command to start up the Coder
server:

```console
coder server --oidc-issuer-url="https://issuer.corp.com" --oidc-email-domain="your-domain-1,your-domain-2" --oidc-client-id="533...des" --oidc-client-secret="G0CSP...7qSM"
```

If you are running Coder as a system service, you can achieve the
same result as the command above by adding the following environment variables
to the `/etc/coder.d/coder.env` file:

```console
CODER_OIDC_ISSUER_URL="https://issuer.corp.com"
CODER_OIDC_EMAIL_DOMAIN="your-domain-1,your-domain-2"
CODER_OIDC_CLIENT_ID="533...des"
CODER_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET="G0CSP...7qSM"
```

Once complete, run `sudo service coder restart` to reboot Coder.

If deploying Coder via Helm, you can set the above environment variables in the
`values.yaml` file as such:

```yaml
coder:
  env:
    - name: CODER_OIDC_ISSUER_URL
      value: "https://issuer.corp.com"
    - name: CODER_OIDC_EMAIL_DOMAIN
      value: "your-domain-1,your-domain-2"
    - name: CODER_OIDC_CLIENT_ID
      value: "533...des"
    - name: CODER_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET
      value: "G0CSP...7qSM"
```

To upgrade Coder, run:

```console
helm upgrade <release-name> coder-v2/coder -n <namespace> -f values.yaml
```

## OIDC Claims

Coder requires all OIDC email addresses to be verified by default. If the
`email_verified` claim is present in the token response from the identity
provider, Coder will validate that its value is `true`. If needed, you can
disable this behavior with the following setting:

```console
CODER_OIDC_IGNORE_EMAIL_VERIFIED=true
```

> **Note:** This will cause Coder to implicitly treat all OIDC emails as
> "verified".

When a new user is created, the `preferred_username` claim becomes the username.
If this claim is empty, the email address will be stripped of the domain, and
become the username (e.g. `example@coder.com` becomes `example`).

If you'd like to change the OpenID Connect button text and/or icon, you can
configure them like so:

```console
CODER_OIDC_SIGN_IN_TEXT="Sign in with Gitea"
CODER_OIDC_ICON_URL=https://gitea.io/images/gitea.png
```

## SCIM (enterprise)

Coder supports user provisioning and deprovisioning via SCIM 2.0 with header
authentication. Upon deactivation, users are [suspended](./users.md#suspend-a-user)
and are not deleted. [Configure](./configure.md) your SCIM application with an
auth key and supply it the Coder server.

```console
CODER_SCIM_API_KEY="your-api-key"
```

## TLS

If your OpenID Connect provider requires client TLS certificates for authentication, you can configure them like so:

```console
CODER_TLS_CLIENT_CERT_FILE=/path/to/cert.pem
CODER_TLS_CLIENT_KEY_FILE=/path/to/key.pem
```

## Group Sync (enterprise)

If your OpenID Connect provider supports group claims, you can configure Coder
to synchronize groups in your auth provider to groups within Coder.

To enable group sync, ensure that the `groups` claim is set. If group sync is
enabled, the user's groups will be controlled by the OIDC provider. This means
manual group additions/removals will be overwritten on the next login.

```console
# as an environment variable
CODER_OIDC_SCOPES=openid,profile,email,groups
# as a flag
--oidc-scopes openid,profile,email,groups
```

On login, users will automatically be assigned to groups that have matching
names in Coder and removed from groups that the user no longer belongs to.

For cases when an OIDC provider only returns group IDs ([Azure AD][azure-gids])
or you want to have different group names in Coder than in your OIDC provider,
you can configure mapping between the two.

```console
# as an environment variable
CODER_OIDC_GROUP_MAPPING='{"myOIDCGroupID": "myCoderGroupName"}'
# as a flag
--oidc-group-mapping '{"myOIDCGroupID": "myCoderGroupName"}'
```

From the example above, users that belong to the `myOIDCGroupID` group in your
OIDC provider will be added to the `myCoderGroupName` group in Coder.

> **Note:** Groups are only updated on login.

[azure-gids]: https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues/59766#issuecomment-664387195
