docs/about/feature-stages.md, before:

# Feature stages

Some Coder features are released in feature stages before they are generally
available.

If you encounter an issue with any Coder feature, please submit a
[GitHub issue](https://github.com/coder/coder/issues) or join the
[Coder Discord](https://discord.gg/coder).

## Early access features

- **Stable**: No
- **Production-ready**: No
- **Support**: GitHub issues

Early access features are neither feature-complete nor stable. We do not
recommend using early access features in production deployments.

Coder sometimes releases early access features that are available for use, but are disabled by default.
You shouldn't use early access features in production because they might cause performance or stability issues.
Early access features can be mostly feature-complete, but require further internal testing and remain in the early access stage for at least one month.

Coder may make significant changes or revert features to a feature flag at any time.

If you plan to activate an early access feature, we suggest that you use a
staging deployment.

<details><summary>To enable early access features:</summary>

Use the [Coder CLI](../install/cli.md) `--experiments` flag to enable early access features:

- Enable all early access features:

   ```shell
   coder server --experiments=*
   ```

- Enable multiple early access features:

   ```shell
   coder server --experiments=feature1,feature2
   ```

You can also use the `CODER_EXPERIMENTS` [environment variable](../admin/setup/index.md).

You can opt-out of a feature after you've enabled it.

</details>

### Available early access features

<!-- Code generated by scripts/release/docs_update_experiments.sh. DO NOT EDIT. -->
<!-- BEGIN: available-experimental-features -->

Currently no experimental features are available in the latest mainline or stable release.

<!-- END: available-experimental-features -->

## Beta

- **Stable**: No
- **Production-ready**: Not fully
- **Support**: Documentation, [Discord](https://discord.gg/coder), and [GitHub issues](https://github.com/coder/coder/issues)

Beta features are open to the public and are tagged with a `Beta` label.

They’re in active development and subject to minor changes.
They might contain minor bugs, but are generally ready for use.

Beta features are often ready for general availability within two-three releases.
You should test beta features in staging environments.
You can use beta features in production, but should set expectations and inform users that some features may be incomplete.

We keep documentation about beta features up-to-date with the latest information, including planned features, limitations, and workarounds.
If you encounter an issue, please contact your [Coder account team](https://coder.com/contact), reach out on [Discord](https://discord.gg/coder), or create a [GitHub issues](https://github.com/coder/coder/issues) if there isn't one already.
While we will do our best to provide support with beta features, most issues will be escalated to the product team.
Beta features are not covered within service-level agreements (SLA).

Most beta features are enabled by default.
Beta features are announced through the [Coder Changelog](https://coder.com/changelog), and more information is available in the documentation.

## General Availability (GA)

- **Stable**: Yes
- **Production-ready**: Yes
- **Support**: Yes, [based on license](https://coder.com/pricing).

All features that are not explicitly tagged as `Early access` or `Beta` are considered generally available (GA).
They have been tested, are stable, and are enabled by default.

If your Coder license includes an SLA, please consult it for an outline of specific expectations.

For support, consult our knowledgeable and growing community on [Discord](https://discord.gg/coder), or create a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/coder/coder/issues) if one doesn't exist already.
Customers with a valid Coder license, can submit a support request or contact your [account team](https://coder.com/contact).

We intend [Coder documentation](../README.md) to be the [single source of truth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_source_of_truth) and all features should have some form of complete documentation that outlines how to use or implement a feature.
If you discover an error or if you have a suggestion that could improve the documentation, please [submit a GitHub issue](https://github.com/coder/internal/issues/new?title=request%28docs%29%3A+request+title+here&labels=["customer-feedback","docs"]&body=please+enter+your+request+here).

Some GA features can be disabled for air-gapped deployments.
Consult the feature's documentation or submit a support ticket for assistance.

Commit message:

add table to feature stages

docs/about/feature-stages.md, after:

# Feature stages

Some Coder features are released in feature stages before they are generally
available.

If you encounter an issue with any Coder feature, please submit a
[GitHub issue](https://github.com/coder/coder/issues) or join the
[Coder Discord](https://discord.gg/coder).

## Feature stages

| Feature stage                          | Stable | Production-ready | Support               | Description                                                                                                                    |
|----------------------------------------|--------|------------------|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Early Access](#early-access-features) | No     | No               | GitHub issues         | For staging only. Not feature-complete or stable. Disabled by default.                                                         |
| [Beta](#beta)                          | No     | Not fully        | Docs, Discord, GitHub | Publicly available. In active developement with minor bugs. Suitable for staging; optional for production. Not covered by SLA. |
| [GA](#general-availability-ga)         | Yes    | Yes              | License-based         | Stable and tested. Enabled by default. Fully documented. Support based on license.                                             |

## Early access features

- **Stable**: No
- **Production-ready**: No
- **Support**: GitHub issues

Early access features are neither feature-complete nor stable. We do not
recommend using early access features in production deployments.

Coder sometimes releases early access features that are available for use, but are disabled by default.
You shouldn't use early access features in production because they might cause performance or stability issues.
Early access features can be mostly feature-complete, but require further internal testing and remain in the early access stage for at least one month.

Coder may make significant changes or revert features to a feature flag at any time.

If you plan to activate an early access feature, we suggest that you use a
staging deployment.

<details><summary>To enable early access features:</summary>

Use the [Coder CLI](../install/cli.md) `--experiments` flag to enable early access features:

- Enable all early access features:

   ```shell
   coder server --experiments=*
   ```

- Enable multiple early access features:

   ```shell
   coder server --experiments=feature1,feature2
   ```

You can also use the `CODER_EXPERIMENTS` [environment variable](../admin/setup/index.md).

You can opt-out of a feature after you've enabled it.

</details>

### Available early access features

<!-- Code generated by scripts/release/docs_update_experiments.sh. DO NOT EDIT. -->
<!-- BEGIN: available-experimental-features -->

Currently no experimental features are available in the latest mainline or stable release.

<!-- END: available-experimental-features -->

## Beta

- **Stable**: No
- **Production-ready**: Not fully
- **Support**: Documentation, [Discord](https://discord.gg/coder), and [GitHub issues](https://github.com/coder/coder/issues)

Beta features are open to the public and are tagged with a `Beta` label.

They’re in active development and subject to minor changes.
They might contain minor bugs, but are generally ready for use.

Beta features are often ready for general availability within two-three releases.
You should test beta features in staging environments.
You can use beta features in production, but should set expectations and inform users that some features may be incomplete.

We keep documentation about beta features up-to-date with the latest information, including planned features, limitations, and workarounds.
If you encounter an issue, please contact your [Coder account team](https://coder.com/contact), reach out on [Discord](https://discord.gg/coder), or create a [GitHub issues](https://github.com/coder/coder/issues) if there isn't one already.
While we will do our best to provide support with beta features, most issues will be escalated to the product team.
Beta features are not covered within service-level agreements (SLA).

Most beta features are enabled by default.
Beta features are announced through the [Coder Changelog](https://coder.com/changelog), and more information is available in the documentation.

## General Availability (GA)

- **Stable**: Yes
- **Production-ready**: Yes
- **Support**: Yes, [based on license](https://coder.com/pricing).

All features that are not explicitly tagged as `Early access` or `Beta` are considered generally available (GA).
They have been tested, are stable, and are enabled by default.

If your Coder license includes an SLA, please consult it for an outline of specific expectations.

For support, consult our knowledgeable and growing community on [Discord](https://discord.gg/coder), or create a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/coder/coder/issues) if one doesn't exist already.
Customers with a valid Coder license, can submit a support request or contact your [account team](https://coder.com/contact).

We intend [Coder documentation](../README.md) to be the [single source of truth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_source_of_truth) and all features should have some form of complete documentation that outlines how to use or implement a feature.
If you discover an error or if you have a suggestion that could improve the documentation, please [submit a GitHub issue](https://github.com/coder/internal/issues/new?title=request%28docs%29%3A+request+title+here&labels=["customer-feedback","docs"]&body=please+enter+your+request+here).

Some GA features can be disabled for air-gapped deployments.
Consult the feature's documentation or submit a support ticket for assistance.
