docs/admin/infrastructure/validated-architectures/1k-users.md, before:

# Reference Architecture: up to 1,000 users

The 1,000 users architecture is designed to cover a wide range of workflows.
Examples of subjects that might utilize this architecture include medium-sized
tech startups, educational units, or small to mid-sized enterprises.

**Target load**: API: up to 180 RPS

**High Availability**: non-essential for small deployments

## Hardware recommendations

### Coderd nodes

| Users       | Node capacity       | Replicas                 | GCP             | AWS        | Azure             |
|-------------|---------------------|--------------------------|-----------------|------------|-------------------|
| Up to 1,000 | 2 vCPU, 8 GB memory | 1-2 nodes, 1 coderd each | `n1-standard-2` | `t3.large` | `Standard_D2s_v3` |

**Footnotes**:

- For small deployments (ca. 100 users, 10 concurrent workspace builds), it is
  acceptable to deploy provisioners on `coderd` nodes.

### Provisioner nodes

| Users       | Node capacity        | Replicas                      | GCP              | AWS          | Azure             |
|-------------|----------------------|-------------------------------|------------------|--------------|-------------------|
| Up to 1,000 | 8 vCPU, 32 GB memory | 2 nodes, 30 provisioners each | `t2d-standard-8` | `t3.2xlarge` | `Standard_D8s_v3` |

**Footnotes**:

- An external provisioner is deployed as Kubernetes pod.

### Workspace nodes

| Users       | Node capacity        | Replicas                     | GCP              | AWS          | Azure             |
|-------------|----------------------|------------------------------|------------------|--------------|-------------------|
| Up to 1,000 | 8 vCPU, 32 GB memory | 64 nodes, 16 workspaces each | `t2d-standard-8` | `t3.2xlarge` | `Standard_D8s_v3` |

**Footnotes**:

- Assumed that a workspace user needs at minimum 2 GB memory to perform. We
  recommend against over-provisioning memory for developer workloads, as this my
  lead to OOMKiller invocations.
- Maximum number of Kubernetes workspace pods per node: 256

### Database nodes

| Users       | Node capacity       | Replicas | Storage | GCP                | AWS           | Azure             |
|-------------|---------------------|----------|---------|--------------------|---------------|-------------------|
| Up to 1,000 | 2 vCPU, 8 GB memory | 1 node   | 512 GB  | `db-custom-2-7680` | `db.t3.large` | `Standard_D2s_v3` |

Commit message:

docs: update aws instance recommendations (#17344)
from @jatcod3r on Slack:

> for the AWS recs on our [validated
arch](https://coder.com/docs/admin/infrastructure/validated-architectures/1k-users)
docs, should we be referencing customers to use non-T type instances?
> Once you've exceeded EC2's [CPU
credits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/burstable-performance-instances.html)
Coder starts performing poorly.
> We do suggest to [scale for peak
demand](https://coder.com/docs/tutorials/best-practices/scale-coder#scaling-3),
so does recommending something from the
[cpu](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/#Compute_Optimized) or
[memory
optimized](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/#Memory_Optimized)
types make sense?


[preview](https://coder.com/docs/@aws-ec2-arch/admin/infrastructure/validated-architectures#aws-instance-types)

---------

Co-authored-by: EdwardAngert <17991901+EdwardAngert@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/admin/infrastructure/validated-architectures/1k-users.md, after:

# Reference Architecture: up to 1,000 users

The 1,000 users architecture is designed to cover a wide range of workflows.
Examples of subjects that might utilize this architecture include medium-sized
tech startups, educational units, or small to mid-sized enterprises.

**Target load**: API: up to 180 RPS

**High Availability**: non-essential for small deployments

## Hardware recommendations

### Coderd nodes

| Users       | Node capacity       | Replicas                 | GCP             | AWS        | Azure             |
|-------------|---------------------|--------------------------|-----------------|------------|-------------------|
| Up to 1,000 | 2 vCPU, 8 GB memory | 1-2 nodes, 1 coderd each | `n1-standard-2` | `m5.large` | `Standard_D2s_v3` |

**Footnotes**:

- For small deployments (ca. 100 users, 10 concurrent workspace builds), it is
  acceptable to deploy provisioners on `coderd` nodes.

### Provisioner nodes

| Users       | Node capacity        | Replicas                      | GCP              | AWS          | Azure             |
|-------------|----------------------|-------------------------------|------------------|--------------|-------------------|
| Up to 1,000 | 8 vCPU, 32 GB memory | 2 nodes, 30 provisioners each | `t2d-standard-8` | `c5.2xlarge` | `Standard_D8s_v3` |

**Footnotes**:

- An external provisioner is deployed as Kubernetes pod.

### Workspace nodes

| Users       | Node capacity        | Replicas                     | GCP              | AWS          | Azure             |
|-------------|----------------------|------------------------------|------------------|--------------|-------------------|
| Up to 1,000 | 8 vCPU, 32 GB memory | 64 nodes, 16 workspaces each | `t2d-standard-8` | `m5.2xlarge` | `Standard_D8s_v3` |

**Footnotes**:

- Assumed that a workspace user needs at minimum 2 GB memory to perform. We
  recommend against over-provisioning memory for developer workloads, as this my
  lead to OOMKiller invocations.
- Maximum number of Kubernetes workspace pods per node: 256

### Database nodes

| Users       | Node capacity       | Replicas | Storage | GCP                | AWS           | Azure             |
|-------------|---------------------|----------|---------|--------------------|---------------|-------------------|
| Up to 1,000 | 2 vCPU, 8 GB memory | 1 node   | 512 GB  | `db-custom-2-7680` | `db.m5.large` | `Standard_D2s_v3` |

**Footnotes for AWS instance types**:

- For production deployments, we recommend using non-burstable instance types,
  such as `m5` or `c5`, instead of burstable instances, such as `t3`.
  Burstable instances can experience significant performance degradation once
  CPU credits are exhausted, leading to poor user experience under sustained load.
