docs/ai-coder/ide-integration.md, before:

> [!NOTE]
>
> This functionality is in early access and is evolving rapidly.
>
> For now, we recommend testing it in a demo or staging environment,
> rather than deploying to production.
>
> Join our [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/coder) or
> [contact us](https://coder.com/contact) to get help or share feedback.

## Prerequisites

- A Coder deployment with v2.21 or later
- A [template configured for AI agents](./create-template.md)
- VS Code, Windsurf, or Cursor IDE with the
  [Coder Extension](https://github.com/coder/vscode-coder/releases) v1.6.0+ or
  the [experimental AI VSIX](https://github.com/coder/vscode-coder/releases/)

## Overview

Once you have an agent running and reporting activity to Coder, you can view the
status and switch between workspaces from the IDE. This can be very helpful for
reviewing code, working along with the agent, and more.

![IDE Integration](../images/guides/ai-agents/ide-integration.png)

## Next Steps

- [Programmatically manage agents](./headless.md)
- [Securing Agents with Boundaries](./securing.md)

Commit message:

docs: update ai feature stage to beta and ease the intro note's tone (#17620)
[preview](https://coder.com/docs/@ai-feature-stage/ai-coder)

docs/ai-coder/ide-integration.md, after:

> [!NOTE]
>
> This functionality is in beta and is evolving rapidly.
>
> When using any AI tool for development, exercise a level of caution appropriate to your use case and environment.
> Always review AI-generated content before using it in critical systems.
>
> Join our [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/coder) or
> [contact us](https://coder.com/contact) to get help or share feedback.

## Prerequisites

- A Coder deployment with v2.21 or later
- A [template configured for AI agents](./create-template.md)
- VS Code, Windsurf, or Cursor IDE with the
  [Coder Extension](https://github.com/coder/vscode-coder/releases) v1.6.0+ or
  the [experimental AI VSIX](https://github.com/coder/vscode-coder/releases/)

## Overview

Once you have an agent running and reporting activity to Coder, you can view the
status and switch between workspaces from the IDE. This can be very helpful for
reviewing code, working along with the agent, and more.

![IDE Integration](../images/guides/ai-agents/ide-integration.png)

## Next Steps

- [Programmatically manage agents](./headless.md)
- [Securing Agents with Boundaries](./securing.md)
