docs/reference/cli/config-ssh.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# config-ssh

Add an SSH Host entry for your workspaces "ssh workspace.coder"

## Usage

```console
coder config-ssh [flags]
```

## Description

```console
  - You can use -o (or --ssh-option) so set SSH options to be used for all your
workspaces:

     $ coder config-ssh -o ForwardAgent=yes

  - You can use --dry-run (or -n) to see the changes that would be made:

     $ coder config-ssh --dry-run
```

## Options

### --ssh-config-file

|             |                                     |
|-------------|-------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                 |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SSH_CONFIG_FILE</code> |
| Default     | <code>~/.ssh/config</code>          |

Specifies the path to an SSH config.

### --coder-binary-path

|             |                                            |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                        |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SSH_CONFIG_BINARY_PATH</code> |

Optionally specify the absolute path to the coder binary used in ProxyCommand. By default, the binary invoking this command ('config ssh') is used.

### -o, --ssh-option

|             |                                     |
|-------------|-------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>           |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SSH_CONFIG_OPTS</code> |

Specifies additional SSH options to embed in each host stanza.

### -n, --dry-run

|             |                                 |
|-------------|---------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>bool</code>               |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SSH_DRY_RUN</code> |

Perform a trial run with no changes made, showing a diff at the end.

### --use-previous-options

|             |                                              |
|-------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>bool</code>                            |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SSH_USE_PREVIOUS_OPTIONS</code> |

Specifies whether or not to keep options from previous run of config-ssh.

### --ssh-host-prefix

|             |                                               |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                           |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_CONFIGSSH_SSH_HOST_PREFIX</code> |

Override the default host prefix.

### --hostname-suffix

|             |                                               |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                           |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_CONFIGSSH_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX</code> |

Override the default hostname suffix.

### --wait

|             |                                    |
|-------------|------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>yes\|no\|auto</code>         |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_CONFIGSSH_WAIT</code> |
| Default     | <code>auto</code>                  |

Specifies whether or not to wait for the startup script to finish executing. Auto means that the agent startup script behavior configured in the workspace template is used.

### --disable-autostart

|             |                                                 |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>bool</code>                               |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_CONFIGSSH_DISABLE_AUTOSTART</code> |
| Default     | <code>false</code>                              |

Disable starting the workspace automatically when connecting via SSH.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Bypass prompts.

Commit message:

fix(cli): make -y flag properly support non-interactive mode in create
The -y flag was documented as 'Bypass prompts' but only bypassed the final
'Confirm create?' prompt. All other interactive prompts (preset selection,
parameter input, template selection, workspace name) would still appear,
breaking CI/CD and non-interactive usage.

Changes:
- Add isNonInteractive(inv) helper in create.go
- Workspace name: error if not provided with -y
- Template selection: auto-select if exactly 1 template exists, error if multiple
- Preset selection: skip presets entirely (default to none) with -y
- Parameters: use default values automatically, error if required param has no default
- External auth: error immediately if required auth not authenticated
- Update SkipPromptOption() description to accurately describe behavior
- Regenerate golden files for updated flag description

The -y flag now enables true non-interactive mode for `coder create`.

docs/reference/cli/config-ssh.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# config-ssh

Add an SSH Host entry for your workspaces "ssh workspace.coder"

## Usage

```console
coder config-ssh [flags]
```

## Description

```console
  - You can use -o (or --ssh-option) so set SSH options to be used for all your
workspaces:

     $ coder config-ssh -o ForwardAgent=yes

  - You can use --dry-run (or -n) to see the changes that would be made:

     $ coder config-ssh --dry-run
```

## Options

### --ssh-config-file

|             |                                     |
|-------------|-------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                 |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SSH_CONFIG_FILE</code> |
| Default     | <code>~/.ssh/config</code>          |

Specifies the path to an SSH config.

### --coder-binary-path

|             |                                            |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                        |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SSH_CONFIG_BINARY_PATH</code> |

Optionally specify the absolute path to the coder binary used in ProxyCommand. By default, the binary invoking this command ('config ssh') is used.

### -o, --ssh-option

|             |                                     |
|-------------|-------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>           |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SSH_CONFIG_OPTS</code> |

Specifies additional SSH options to embed in each host stanza.

### -n, --dry-run

|             |                                 |
|-------------|---------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>bool</code>               |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SSH_DRY_RUN</code> |

Perform a trial run with no changes made, showing a diff at the end.

### --use-previous-options

|             |                                              |
|-------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>bool</code>                            |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SSH_USE_PREVIOUS_OPTIONS</code> |

Specifies whether or not to keep options from previous run of config-ssh.

### --ssh-host-prefix

|             |                                               |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                           |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_CONFIGSSH_SSH_HOST_PREFIX</code> |

Override the default host prefix.

### --hostname-suffix

|             |                                               |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                           |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_CONFIGSSH_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX</code> |

Override the default hostname suffix.

### --wait

|             |                                    |
|-------------|------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>yes\|no\|auto</code>         |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_CONFIGSSH_WAIT</code> |
| Default     | <code>auto</code>                  |

Specifies whether or not to wait for the startup script to finish executing. Auto means that the agent startup script behavior configured in the workspace template is used.

### --disable-autostart

|             |                                                 |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>bool</code>                               |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_CONFIGSSH_DISABLE_AUTOSTART</code> |
| Default     | <code>false</code>                              |

Disable starting the workspace automatically when connecting via SSH.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Run in non-interactive mode. Accepts default values and fails on required inputs.
