docs/reference/cli/create.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# create

Create a workspace

## Usage

```console
coder create [flags] [workspace]
```

## Description

```console
  - Create a workspace for another user (if you have permission):

     $ coder create <username>/<workspace_name>
```

## Options

### -t, --template

|             |                                   |
|-------------|-----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>               |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_TEMPLATE_NAME</code> |

Specify a template name.

### --template-version

|             |                                      |
|-------------|--------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                  |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_TEMPLATE_VERSION</code> |

Specify a template version name.

### --preset

|             |                                 |
|-------------|---------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>             |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_PRESET_NAME</code> |

Specify the name of a template version preset. Use 'none' to explicitly indicate that no preset should be used.

### --start-at

|             |                                        |
|-------------|----------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                    |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_WORKSPACE_START_AT</code> |

Specify the workspace autostart schedule. Check coder schedule start --help for the syntax.

### --stop-after

|             |                                          |
|-------------|------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>duration</code>                    |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_WORKSPACE_STOP_AFTER</code> |

Specify a duration after which the workspace should shut down (e.g. 8h).

### --automatic-updates

|             |                                                 |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                             |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_WORKSPACE_AUTOMATIC_UPDATES</code> |
| Default     | <code>never</code>                              |

Specify automatic updates setting for the workspace (accepts 'always' or 'never').

### --copy-parameters-from

|             |                                                    |
|-------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                                |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_WORKSPACE_COPY_PARAMETERS_FROM</code> |

Specify the source workspace name to copy parameters from.

### --use-parameter-defaults

|             |                                                      |
|-------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>bool</code>                                    |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_WORKSPACE_USE_PARAMETER_DEFAULTS</code> |

Automatically accept parameter defaults when no value is provided.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Bypass confirmation prompts.

### --parameter

|             |                                    |
|-------------|------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>          |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_RICH_PARAMETER</code> |

Rich parameter value in the format "name=value".

### --rich-parameter-file

|             |                                         |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                     |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_RICH_PARAMETER_FILE</code> |

Specify a file path with values for rich parameters defined in the template. The file should be in YAML format, containing key-value pairs for the parameters.

### --parameter-default

|             |                                            |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>                  |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_RICH_PARAMETER_DEFAULT</code> |

Rich parameter default values in the format "name=value".

### -O, --org

|             |                                  |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>              |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_ORGANIZATION</code> |

Select which organization (uuid or name) to use.

Commit message:

feat: add non-interactive flag to create command
This will automatically select the template if there is only one, skip
the preset if there is no default, and use parameter defaults.

If there are multiple templates or required parameters that have no
defaults, the command will error.

docs/reference/cli/create.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# create

Create a workspace

## Usage

```console
coder create [flags] [workspace]
```

## Description

```console
  - Create a workspace for another user (if you have permission):

     $ coder create <username>/<workspace_name>
```

## Options

### -t, --template

|             |                                   |
|-------------|-----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>               |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_TEMPLATE_NAME</code> |

Specify a template name.

### --template-version

|             |                                      |
|-------------|--------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                  |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_TEMPLATE_VERSION</code> |

Specify a template version name.

### --preset

|             |                                 |
|-------------|---------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>             |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_PRESET_NAME</code> |

Specify the name of a template version preset. Use 'none' to explicitly indicate that no preset should be used.

### --start-at

|             |                                        |
|-------------|----------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                    |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_WORKSPACE_START_AT</code> |

Specify the workspace autostart schedule. Check coder schedule start --help for the syntax.

### --stop-after

|             |                                          |
|-------------|------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>duration</code>                    |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_WORKSPACE_STOP_AFTER</code> |

Specify a duration after which the workspace should shut down (e.g. 8h).

### --automatic-updates

|             |                                                 |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                             |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_WORKSPACE_AUTOMATIC_UPDATES</code> |
| Default     | <code>never</code>                              |

Specify automatic updates setting for the workspace (accepts 'always' or 'never').

### --copy-parameters-from

|             |                                                    |
|-------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                                |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_WORKSPACE_COPY_PARAMETERS_FROM</code> |

Specify the source workspace name to copy parameters from.

### --use-parameter-defaults

|             |                                                      |
|-------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>bool</code>                                    |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_WORKSPACE_USE_PARAMETER_DEFAULTS</code> |

Automatically accept parameter defaults when no value is provided.

### --non-interactive

|             |                                     |
|-------------|-------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>bool</code>                   |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_NON_INTERACTIVE</code> |

Automatically accept all defaults and error when there is no default for a required input.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Bypass confirmation prompts.

### --parameter

|             |                                    |
|-------------|------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>          |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_RICH_PARAMETER</code> |

Rich parameter value in the format "name=value".

### --rich-parameter-file

|             |                                         |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                     |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_RICH_PARAMETER_FILE</code> |

Specify a file path with values for rich parameters defined in the template. The file should be in YAML format, containing key-value pairs for the parameters.

### --parameter-default

|             |                                            |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>                  |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_RICH_PARAMETER_DEFAULT</code> |

Rich parameter default values in the format "name=value".

### -O, --org

|             |                                  |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>              |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_ORGANIZATION</code> |

Select which organization (uuid or name) to use.
