docs/reference/cli/dotfiles.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# dotfiles

Personalize your workspace by applying a canonical dotfiles repository

## Usage

```console
coder dotfiles [flags] <git_repo_url>
```

## Description

```console
  - Check out and install a dotfiles repository without prompts:

     $ coder dotfiles --yes git@github.com:example/dotfiles.git
```

## Options

### --symlink-dir

|             |                                 |
|-------------|---------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>             |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SYMLINK_DIR</code> |

Specifies the directory for the dotfiles symlink destinations. If empty, will use $HOME.

### -b, --branch

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Specifies which branch to clone. If empty, will default to cloning the default branch or using the existing branch in the cloned repo on disk.

### --repo-dir

|             |                                       |
|-------------|---------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                   |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_DOTFILES_REPO_DIR</code> |
| Default     | <code>dotfiles</code>                 |

Specifies the directory for the dotfiles repository, relative to global config directory.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Bypass prompts.

Commit message:

fix(cli): make -y flag properly support non-interactive mode in create
The -y flag was documented as 'Bypass prompts' but only bypassed the final
'Confirm create?' prompt. All other interactive prompts (preset selection,
parameter input, template selection, workspace name) would still appear,
breaking CI/CD and non-interactive usage.

Changes:
- Add isNonInteractive(inv) helper in create.go
- Workspace name: error if not provided with -y
- Template selection: auto-select if exactly 1 template exists, error if multiple
- Preset selection: skip presets entirely (default to none) with -y
- Parameters: use default values automatically, error if required param has no default
- External auth: error immediately if required auth not authenticated
- Update SkipPromptOption() description to accurately describe behavior
- Regenerate golden files for updated flag description

The -y flag now enables true non-interactive mode for `coder create`.

docs/reference/cli/dotfiles.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# dotfiles

Personalize your workspace by applying a canonical dotfiles repository

## Usage

```console
coder dotfiles [flags] <git_repo_url>
```

## Description

```console
  - Check out and install a dotfiles repository without prompts:

     $ coder dotfiles --yes git@github.com:example/dotfiles.git
```

## Options

### --symlink-dir

|             |                                 |
|-------------|---------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>             |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SYMLINK_DIR</code> |

Specifies the directory for the dotfiles symlink destinations. If empty, will use $HOME.

### -b, --branch

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Specifies which branch to clone. If empty, will default to cloning the default branch or using the existing branch in the cloned repo on disk.

### --repo-dir

|             |                                       |
|-------------|---------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                   |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_DOTFILES_REPO_DIR</code> |
| Default     | <code>dotfiles</code>                 |

Specifies the directory for the dotfiles repository, relative to global config directory.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Run in non-interactive mode. Accepts default values and fails on required inputs.
