docs/reference/cli/organizations_roles_update.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# organizations roles update

Update an organization custom role

## Usage

```console
coder organizations roles update [flags] <role_name>
```

## Description

```console
  - Run with an input.json file:

     $ coder roles update --stdin < role.json
```

## Options

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Bypass prompts.

### --dry-run

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Does all the work, but does not submit the final updated role.

### --stdin

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Reads stdin for the json role definition to upload.

### -c, --column

|         |                                                                                                                  |
|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type    | <code>[name\|display name\|organization id\|site permissions\|organization permissions\|user permissions]</code> |
| Default | <code>name,display name,site permissions,organization permissions,user permissions</code>                        |

Columns to display in table output.

### -o, --output

|         |                          |
|---------|--------------------------|
| Type    | <code>table\|json</code> |
| Default | <code>table</code>       |

Output format.

Commit message:

fix(cli): make -y flag properly support non-interactive mode in create
The -y flag was documented as 'Bypass prompts' but only bypassed the final
'Confirm create?' prompt. All other interactive prompts (preset selection,
parameter input, template selection, workspace name) would still appear,
breaking CI/CD and non-interactive usage.

Changes:
- Add isNonInteractive(inv) helper in create.go
- Workspace name: error if not provided with -y
- Template selection: auto-select if exactly 1 template exists, error if multiple
- Preset selection: skip presets entirely (default to none) with -y
- Parameters: use default values automatically, error if required param has no default
- External auth: error immediately if required auth not authenticated
- Update SkipPromptOption() description to accurately describe behavior
- Regenerate golden files for updated flag description

The -y flag now enables true non-interactive mode for `coder create`.

docs/reference/cli/organizations_roles_update.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# organizations roles update

Update an organization custom role

## Usage

```console
coder organizations roles update [flags] <role_name>
```

## Description

```console
  - Run with an input.json file:

     $ coder roles update --stdin < role.json
```

## Options

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Run in non-interactive mode. Accepts default values and fails on required inputs.

### --dry-run

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Does all the work, but does not submit the final updated role.

### --stdin

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Reads stdin for the json role definition to upload.

### -c, --column

|         |                                                                                                                  |
|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type    | <code>[name\|display name\|organization id\|site permissions\|organization permissions\|user permissions]</code> |
| Default | <code>name,display name,site permissions,organization permissions,user permissions</code>                        |

Columns to display in table output.

### -o, --output

|         |                          |
|---------|--------------------------|
| Type    | <code>table\|json</code> |
| Default | <code>table</code>       |

Output format.
