docs/reference/cli/restart.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# restart

Restart a workspace

## Usage

```console
coder restart [flags] <workspace>
```

## Options

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Bypass prompts.

### --build-option

|             |                                  |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>        |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_BUILD_OPTION</code> |

Build option value in the format "name=value".

### --build-options

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Prompt for one-time build options defined with ephemeral parameters.

### --ephemeral-parameter

|             |                                         |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>               |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_EPHEMERAL_PARAMETER</code> |

Set the value of ephemeral parameters defined in the template. The format is "name=value".

### --prompt-ephemeral-parameters

|             |                                                 |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>bool</code>                               |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_PROMPT_EPHEMERAL_PARAMETERS</code> |

Prompt to set values of ephemeral parameters defined in the template. If a value has been set via --ephemeral-parameter, it will not be prompted for.

### --parameter

|             |                                    |
|-------------|------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>          |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_RICH_PARAMETER</code> |

Rich parameter value in the format "name=value".

### --rich-parameter-file

|             |                                         |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                     |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_RICH_PARAMETER_FILE</code> |

Specify a file path with values for rich parameters defined in the template. The file should be in YAML format, containing key-value pairs for the parameters.

### --parameter-default

|             |                                            |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>                  |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_RICH_PARAMETER_DEFAULT</code> |

Rich parameter default values in the format "name=value".

### --always-prompt

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Always prompt all parameters. Does not pull parameter values from existing workspace.

Commit message:

fix(cli): make -y flag properly support non-interactive mode in create
The -y flag was documented as 'Bypass prompts' but only bypassed the final
'Confirm create?' prompt. All other interactive prompts (preset selection,
parameter input, template selection, workspace name) would still appear,
breaking CI/CD and non-interactive usage.

Changes:
- Add isNonInteractive(inv) helper in create.go
- Workspace name: error if not provided with -y
- Template selection: auto-select if exactly 1 template exists, error if multiple
- Preset selection: skip presets entirely (default to none) with -y
- Parameters: use default values automatically, error if required param has no default
- External auth: error immediately if required auth not authenticated
- Update SkipPromptOption() description to accurately describe behavior
- Regenerate golden files for updated flag description

The -y flag now enables true non-interactive mode for `coder create`.

docs/reference/cli/restart.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# restart

Restart a workspace

## Usage

```console
coder restart [flags] <workspace>
```

## Options

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Run in non-interactive mode. Accepts default values and fails on required inputs.

### --build-option

|             |                                  |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>        |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_BUILD_OPTION</code> |

Build option value in the format "name=value".

### --build-options

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Prompt for one-time build options defined with ephemeral parameters.

### --ephemeral-parameter

|             |                                         |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>               |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_EPHEMERAL_PARAMETER</code> |

Set the value of ephemeral parameters defined in the template. The format is "name=value".

### --prompt-ephemeral-parameters

|             |                                                 |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>bool</code>                               |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_PROMPT_EPHEMERAL_PARAMETERS</code> |

Prompt to set values of ephemeral parameters defined in the template. If a value has been set via --ephemeral-parameter, it will not be prompted for.

### --parameter

|             |                                    |
|-------------|------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>          |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_RICH_PARAMETER</code> |

Rich parameter value in the format "name=value".

### --rich-parameter-file

|             |                                         |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                     |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_RICH_PARAMETER_FILE</code> |

Specify a file path with values for rich parameters defined in the template. The file should be in YAML format, containing key-value pairs for the parameters.

### --parameter-default

|             |                                            |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>                  |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_RICH_PARAMETER_DEFAULT</code> |

Rich parameter default values in the format "name=value".

### --always-prompt

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Always prompt all parameters. Does not pull parameter values from existing workspace.
