docs/reference/cli/server_dbcrypt_decrypt.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# server dbcrypt decrypt

Decrypt a previously encrypted database.

## Usage

```console
coder server dbcrypt decrypt [flags]
```

## Options

### --postgres-url

|             |                                       |
|-------------|---------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                   |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_PG_CONNECTION_URL</code> |

The connection URL for the Postgres database.

### --postgres-connection-auth

|             |                                        |
|-------------|----------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>password\|awsiamrds</code>       |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_PG_CONNECTION_AUTH</code> |
| Default     | <code>password</code>                  |

Type of auth to use when connecting to postgres.

### --keys

|             |                                                            |
|-------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>                                  |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_EXTERNAL_TOKEN_ENCRYPTION_DECRYPT_KEYS</code> |

Keys required to decrypt existing data. Must be a comma-separated list of base64-encoded keys.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Bypass prompts.

Commit message:

fix(cli): make -y flag properly support non-interactive mode in create
The -y flag was documented as 'Bypass prompts' but only bypassed the final
'Confirm create?' prompt. All other interactive prompts (preset selection,
parameter input, template selection, workspace name) would still appear,
breaking CI/CD and non-interactive usage.

Changes:
- Add isNonInteractive(inv) helper in create.go
- Workspace name: error if not provided with -y
- Template selection: auto-select if exactly 1 template exists, error if multiple
- Preset selection: skip presets entirely (default to none) with -y
- Parameters: use default values automatically, error if required param has no default
- External auth: error immediately if required auth not authenticated
- Update SkipPromptOption() description to accurately describe behavior
- Regenerate golden files for updated flag description

The -y flag now enables true non-interactive mode for `coder create`.

docs/reference/cli/server_dbcrypt_decrypt.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# server dbcrypt decrypt

Decrypt a previously encrypted database.

## Usage

```console
coder server dbcrypt decrypt [flags]
```

## Options

### --postgres-url

|             |                                       |
|-------------|---------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                   |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_PG_CONNECTION_URL</code> |

The connection URL for the Postgres database.

### --postgres-connection-auth

|             |                                        |
|-------------|----------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>password\|awsiamrds</code>       |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_PG_CONNECTION_AUTH</code> |
| Default     | <code>password</code>                  |

Type of auth to use when connecting to postgres.

### --keys

|             |                                                            |
|-------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string-array</code>                                  |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_EXTERNAL_TOKEN_ENCRYPTION_DECRYPT_KEYS</code> |

Keys required to decrypt existing data. Must be a comma-separated list of base64-encoded keys.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Run in non-interactive mode. Accepts default values and fails on required inputs.
