docs/reference/cli/support_bundle.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# support bundle

Generate a support bundle to troubleshoot issues connecting to a workspace.

## Usage

```console
coder support bundle [flags] <workspace> [<agent>]
```

## Description

```console
This command generates a file containing detailed troubleshooting information about the Coder deployment and workspace connections. You must specify a single workspace (and optionally an agent name).
```

## Options

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Bypass prompts.

### -O, --output-file

|             |                                                |
|-------------|------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                            |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SUPPORT_BUNDLE_OUTPUT_FILE</code> |

File path for writing the generated support bundle. Defaults to coder-support-$(date +%s).zip.

### --url-override

|             |                                                 |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                             |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SUPPORT_BUNDLE_URL_OVERRIDE</code> |

Override the URL to your Coder deployment. This may be useful, for example, if you need to troubleshoot a specific Coder replica.

Commit message:

fix(cli): make -y flag properly support non-interactive mode in create
The -y flag was documented as 'Bypass prompts' but only bypassed the final
'Confirm create?' prompt. All other interactive prompts (preset selection,
parameter input, template selection, workspace name) would still appear,
breaking CI/CD and non-interactive usage.

Changes:
- Add isNonInteractive(inv) helper in create.go
- Workspace name: error if not provided with -y
- Template selection: auto-select if exactly 1 template exists, error if multiple
- Preset selection: skip presets entirely (default to none) with -y
- Parameters: use default values automatically, error if required param has no default
- External auth: error immediately if required auth not authenticated
- Update SkipPromptOption() description to accurately describe behavior
- Regenerate golden files for updated flag description

The -y flag now enables true non-interactive mode for `coder create`.

docs/reference/cli/support_bundle.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# support bundle

Generate a support bundle to troubleshoot issues connecting to a workspace.

## Usage

```console
coder support bundle [flags] <workspace> [<agent>]
```

## Description

```console
This command generates a file containing detailed troubleshooting information about the Coder deployment and workspace connections. You must specify a single workspace (and optionally an agent name).
```

## Options

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Run in non-interactive mode. Accepts default values and fails on required inputs.

### -O, --output-file

|             |                                                |
|-------------|------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                            |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SUPPORT_BUNDLE_OUTPUT_FILE</code> |

File path for writing the generated support bundle. Defaults to coder-support-$(date +%s).zip.

### --url-override

|             |                                                 |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>                             |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_SUPPORT_BUNDLE_URL_OVERRIDE</code> |

Override the URL to your Coder deployment. This may be useful, for example, if you need to troubleshoot a specific Coder replica.
