docs/reference/cli/templates_push.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# templates push

Create or update a template from the current directory or as specified by flag

## Usage

```console
coder templates push [flags] [template]
```

## Options

### --variables-file

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Specify a file path with values for Terraform-managed variables.

### --variable

|      |                           |
|------|---------------------------|
| Type | <code>string-array</code> |

Specify a set of values for Terraform-managed variables.

### --var

|      |                           |
|------|---------------------------|
| Type | <code>string-array</code> |

Alias of --variable.

### --provisioner-tag

|      |                           |
|------|---------------------------|
| Type | <code>string-array</code> |

Specify a set of tags to target provisioner daemons. If you do not specify any tags, the tags from the active template version will be reused, if available. To remove existing tags, use --provisioner-tag="-".

### --name

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Specify a name for the new template version. It will be automatically generated if not provided.

### --always-prompt

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Always prompt all parameters. Does not pull parameter values from active template version.

### --activate

|         |                   |
|---------|-------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code> |
| Default | <code>true</code> |

Whether the new template will be marked active.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Bypass prompts.

### -d, --directory

|         |                     |
|---------|---------------------|
| Type    | <code>string</code> |
| Default | <code>.</code>      |

Specify the directory to create from, use '-' to read tar from stdin.

### --ignore-lockfile

|         |                    |
|---------|--------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code>  |
| Default | <code>false</code> |

Ignore warnings about not having a .terraform.lock.hcl file present in the template.

### -m, --message

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Specify a message describing the changes in this version of the template. Messages longer than 72 characters will be displayed as truncated.

### -O, --org

|             |                                  |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>              |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_ORGANIZATION</code> |

Select which organization (uuid or name) to use.

Commit message:

fix(cli): make -y flag properly support non-interactive mode in create
The -y flag was documented as 'Bypass prompts' but only bypassed the final
'Confirm create?' prompt. All other interactive prompts (preset selection,
parameter input, template selection, workspace name) would still appear,
breaking CI/CD and non-interactive usage.

Changes:
- Add isNonInteractive(inv) helper in create.go
- Workspace name: error if not provided with -y
- Template selection: auto-select if exactly 1 template exists, error if multiple
- Preset selection: skip presets entirely (default to none) with -y
- Parameters: use default values automatically, error if required param has no default
- External auth: error immediately if required auth not authenticated
- Update SkipPromptOption() description to accurately describe behavior
- Regenerate golden files for updated flag description

The -y flag now enables true non-interactive mode for `coder create`.

docs/reference/cli/templates_push.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# templates push

Create or update a template from the current directory or as specified by flag

## Usage

```console
coder templates push [flags] [template]
```

## Options

### --variables-file

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Specify a file path with values for Terraform-managed variables.

### --variable

|      |                           |
|------|---------------------------|
| Type | <code>string-array</code> |

Specify a set of values for Terraform-managed variables.

### --var

|      |                           |
|------|---------------------------|
| Type | <code>string-array</code> |

Alias of --variable.

### --provisioner-tag

|      |                           |
|------|---------------------------|
| Type | <code>string-array</code> |

Specify a set of tags to target provisioner daemons. If you do not specify any tags, the tags from the active template version will be reused, if available. To remove existing tags, use --provisioner-tag="-".

### --name

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Specify a name for the new template version. It will be automatically generated if not provided.

### --always-prompt

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Always prompt all parameters. Does not pull parameter values from active template version.

### --activate

|         |                   |
|---------|-------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code> |
| Default | <code>true</code> |

Whether the new template will be marked active.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Run in non-interactive mode. Accepts default values and fails on required inputs.

### -d, --directory

|         |                     |
|---------|---------------------|
| Type    | <code>string</code> |
| Default | <code>.</code>      |

Specify the directory to create from, use '-' to read tar from stdin.

### --ignore-lockfile

|         |                    |
|---------|--------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code>  |
| Default | <code>false</code> |

Ignore warnings about not having a .terraform.lock.hcl file present in the template.

### -m, --message

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Specify a message describing the changes in this version of the template. Messages longer than 72 characters will be displayed as truncated.

### -O, --org

|             |                                  |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>              |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_ORGANIZATION</code> |

Select which organization (uuid or name) to use.
