docs/reference/cli/templates_pull.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# templates pull

Download the active, latest, or specified version of a template to a path.

## Usage

```console
coder templates pull [flags] <name> [destination]
```

## Options

### --tar

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Output the template as a tar archive to stdout.

### --zip

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Output the template as a zip archive to stdout.

### --version

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

The name of the template version to pull. Use 'active' to pull the active version, 'latest' to pull the latest version, or the name of the template version to pull.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Bypass prompts.

### -O, --org

|             |                                  |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>              |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_ORGANIZATION</code> |

Select which organization (uuid or name) to use.

Commit message:

fix(cli): make -y flag properly support non-interactive mode in create
The -y flag was documented as 'Bypass prompts' but only bypassed the final
'Confirm create?' prompt. All other interactive prompts (preset selection,
parameter input, template selection, workspace name) would still appear,
breaking CI/CD and non-interactive usage.

Changes:
- Add isNonInteractive(inv) helper in create.go
- Workspace name: error if not provided with -y
- Template selection: auto-select if exactly 1 template exists, error if multiple
- Preset selection: skip presets entirely (default to none) with -y
- Parameters: use default values automatically, error if required param has no default
- External auth: error immediately if required auth not authenticated
- Update SkipPromptOption() description to accurately describe behavior
- Regenerate golden files for updated flag description

The -y flag now enables true non-interactive mode for `coder create`.

docs/reference/cli/templates_pull.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# templates pull

Download the active, latest, or specified version of a template to a path.

## Usage

```console
coder templates pull [flags] <name> [destination]
```

## Options

### --tar

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Output the template as a tar archive to stdout.

### --zip

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Output the template as a zip archive to stdout.

### --version

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

The name of the template version to pull. Use 'active' to pull the active version, 'latest' to pull the latest version, or the name of the template version to pull.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Run in non-interactive mode. Accepts default values and fails on required inputs.

### -O, --org

|             |                                  |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>              |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_ORGANIZATION</code> |

Select which organization (uuid or name) to use.
