docs/reference/cli/templates_edit.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# templates edit

Edit the metadata of a template by name.

## Usage

```console
coder templates edit [flags] <template>
```

## Options

### --name

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Edit the template name.

### --display-name

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Edit the template display name.

### --description

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Edit the template description.

### --deprecated

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Sets the template as deprecated. Must be a message explaining why the template is deprecated.

### --icon

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Edit the template icon path.

### --default-ttl

|      |                       |
|------|-----------------------|
| Type | <code>duration</code> |

Edit the template default time before shutdown - workspaces created from this template default to this value. Maps to "Default autostop" in the UI.

### --activity-bump

|      |                       |
|------|-----------------------|
| Type | <code>duration</code> |

Edit the template activity bump - workspaces created from this template will have their shutdown time bumped by this value when activity is detected. Maps to "Activity bump" in the UI.

### --autostart-requirement-weekdays

|      |                                                                                    |
|------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type | <code>[monday\|tuesday\|wednesday\|thursday\|friday\|saturday\|sunday\|all]</code> |

Edit the template autostart requirement weekdays - workspaces created from this template can only autostart on the given weekdays. To unset this value for the template (and allow autostart on all days), pass 'all'.

### --autostop-requirement-weekdays

|      |                                                                                     |
|------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type | <code>[monday\|tuesday\|wednesday\|thursday\|friday\|saturday\|sunday\|none]</code> |

Edit the template autostop requirement weekdays - workspaces created from this template must be restarted on the given weekdays. To unset this value for the template (and disable the autostop requirement for the template), pass 'none'.

### --autostop-requirement-weeks

|      |                  |
|------|------------------|
| Type | <code>int</code> |

Edit the template autostop requirement weeks - workspaces created from this template must be restarted on an n-weekly basis.

### --failure-ttl

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>0h</code>       |

Specify a failure TTL for workspaces created from this template. It is the amount of time after a failed "start" build before coder automatically schedules a "stop" build to cleanup.This licensed feature's default is 0h (off). Maps to "Failure cleanup" in the UI.

### --dormancy-threshold

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>0h</code>       |

Specify a duration workspaces may be inactive prior to being moved to the dormant state. This licensed feature's default is 0h (off). Maps to "Dormancy threshold" in the UI.

### --dormancy-auto-deletion

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>0h</code>       |

Specify a duration workspaces may be in the dormant state prior to being deleted. This licensed feature's default is 0h (off). Maps to "Dormancy Auto-Deletion" in the UI.

### --allow-user-cancel-workspace-jobs

|         |                   |
|---------|-------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code> |
| Default | <code>true</code> |

Allow users to cancel in-progress workspace jobs.

### --allow-user-autostart

|         |                   |
|---------|-------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code> |
| Default | <code>true</code> |

Allow users to configure autostart for workspaces on this template. This can only be disabled in enterprise.

### --allow-user-autostop

|         |                   |
|---------|-------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code> |
| Default | <code>true</code> |

Allow users to customize the autostop TTL for workspaces on this template. This can only be disabled in enterprise.

### --require-active-version

|         |                    |
|---------|--------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code>  |
| Default | <code>false</code> |

Requires workspace builds to use the active template version. This setting does not apply to template admins. This is an enterprise-only feature. See https://coder.com/docs/admin/templates/managing-templates#require-automatic-updates-enterprise for more details.

### --private

|         |                    |
|---------|--------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code>  |
| Default | <code>false</code> |

Disable the default behavior of granting template access to the 'everyone' group. The template permissions must be updated to allow non-admin users to use this template.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Bypass prompts.

### -O, --org

|             |                                  |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>              |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_ORGANIZATION</code> |

Select which organization (uuid or name) to use.

Commit message:

fix(cli): make -y flag properly support non-interactive mode in create
The -y flag was documented as 'Bypass prompts' but only bypassed the final
'Confirm create?' prompt. All other interactive prompts (preset selection,
parameter input, template selection, workspace name) would still appear,
breaking CI/CD and non-interactive usage.

Changes:
- Add isNonInteractive(inv) helper in create.go
- Workspace name: error if not provided with -y
- Template selection: auto-select if exactly 1 template exists, error if multiple
- Preset selection: skip presets entirely (default to none) with -y
- Parameters: use default values automatically, error if required param has no default
- External auth: error immediately if required auth not authenticated
- Update SkipPromptOption() description to accurately describe behavior
- Regenerate golden files for updated flag description

The -y flag now enables true non-interactive mode for `coder create`.

docs/reference/cli/templates_edit.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# templates edit

Edit the metadata of a template by name.

## Usage

```console
coder templates edit [flags] <template>
```

## Options

### --name

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Edit the template name.

### --display-name

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Edit the template display name.

### --description

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Edit the template description.

### --deprecated

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Sets the template as deprecated. Must be a message explaining why the template is deprecated.

### --icon

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Edit the template icon path.

### --default-ttl

|      |                       |
|------|-----------------------|
| Type | <code>duration</code> |

Edit the template default time before shutdown - workspaces created from this template default to this value. Maps to "Default autostop" in the UI.

### --activity-bump

|      |                       |
|------|-----------------------|
| Type | <code>duration</code> |

Edit the template activity bump - workspaces created from this template will have their shutdown time bumped by this value when activity is detected. Maps to "Activity bump" in the UI.

### --autostart-requirement-weekdays

|      |                                                                                    |
|------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type | <code>[monday\|tuesday\|wednesday\|thursday\|friday\|saturday\|sunday\|all]</code> |

Edit the template autostart requirement weekdays - workspaces created from this template can only autostart on the given weekdays. To unset this value for the template (and allow autostart on all days), pass 'all'.

### --autostop-requirement-weekdays

|      |                                                                                     |
|------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type | <code>[monday\|tuesday\|wednesday\|thursday\|friday\|saturday\|sunday\|none]</code> |

Edit the template autostop requirement weekdays - workspaces created from this template must be restarted on the given weekdays. To unset this value for the template (and disable the autostop requirement for the template), pass 'none'.

### --autostop-requirement-weeks

|      |                  |
|------|------------------|
| Type | <code>int</code> |

Edit the template autostop requirement weeks - workspaces created from this template must be restarted on an n-weekly basis.

### --failure-ttl

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>0h</code>       |

Specify a failure TTL for workspaces created from this template. It is the amount of time after a failed "start" build before coder automatically schedules a "stop" build to cleanup.This licensed feature's default is 0h (off). Maps to "Failure cleanup" in the UI.

### --dormancy-threshold

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>0h</code>       |

Specify a duration workspaces may be inactive prior to being moved to the dormant state. This licensed feature's default is 0h (off). Maps to "Dormancy threshold" in the UI.

### --dormancy-auto-deletion

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>0h</code>       |

Specify a duration workspaces may be in the dormant state prior to being deleted. This licensed feature's default is 0h (off). Maps to "Dormancy Auto-Deletion" in the UI.

### --allow-user-cancel-workspace-jobs

|         |                   |
|---------|-------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code> |
| Default | <code>true</code> |

Allow users to cancel in-progress workspace jobs.

### --allow-user-autostart

|         |                   |
|---------|-------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code> |
| Default | <code>true</code> |

Allow users to configure autostart for workspaces on this template. This can only be disabled in enterprise.

### --allow-user-autostop

|         |                   |
|---------|-------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code> |
| Default | <code>true</code> |

Allow users to customize the autostop TTL for workspaces on this template. This can only be disabled in enterprise.

### --require-active-version

|         |                    |
|---------|--------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code>  |
| Default | <code>false</code> |

Requires workspace builds to use the active template version. This setting does not apply to template admins. This is an enterprise-only feature. See https://coder.com/docs/admin/templates/managing-templates#require-automatic-updates-enterprise for more details.

### --private

|         |                    |
|---------|--------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code>  |
| Default | <code>false</code> |

Disable the default behavior of granting template access to the 'everyone' group. The template permissions must be updated to allow non-admin users to use this template.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Run in non-interactive mode. Accepts default values and fails on required inputs.

### -O, --org

|             |                                  |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>              |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_ORGANIZATION</code> |

Select which organization (uuid or name) to use.
