docs/reference/cli/templates_create.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# templates create

DEPRECATED: Create a template from the current directory or as specified by flag

## Usage

```console
coder templates create [flags] [name]
```

## Options

### --private

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Disable the default behavior of granting template access to the 'everyone' group. The template permissions must be updated to allow non-admin users to use this template.

### --variables-file

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Specify a file path with values for Terraform-managed variables.

### --variable

|      |                           |
|------|---------------------------|
| Type | <code>string-array</code> |

Specify a set of values for Terraform-managed variables.

### --var

|      |                           |
|------|---------------------------|
| Type | <code>string-array</code> |

Alias of --variable.

### --provisioner-tag

|      |                           |
|------|---------------------------|
| Type | <code>string-array</code> |

Specify a set of tags to target provisioner daemons.

### --default-ttl

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>24h</code>      |

Specify a default TTL for workspaces created from this template. It is the default time before shutdown - workspaces created from this template default to this value. Maps to "Default autostop" in the UI.

### --failure-ttl

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>0h</code>       |

Specify a failure TTL for workspaces created from this template. It is the amount of time after a failed "start" build before coder automatically schedules a "stop" build to cleanup.This licensed feature's default is 0h (off). Maps to "Failure cleanup"in the UI.

### --dormancy-threshold

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>0h</code>       |

Specify a duration workspaces may be inactive prior to being moved to the dormant state. This licensed feature's default is 0h (off). Maps to "Dormancy threshold" in the UI.

### --dormancy-auto-deletion

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>0h</code>       |

Specify a duration workspaces may be in the dormant state prior to being deleted. This licensed feature's default is 0h (off). Maps to "Dormancy Auto-Deletion" in the UI.

### --require-active-version

|         |                    |
|---------|--------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code>  |
| Default | <code>false</code> |

Requires workspace builds to use the active template version. This setting does not apply to template admins. This is an enterprise-only feature. See https://coder.com/docs/admin/templates/managing-templates#require-automatic-updates-enterprise for more details.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Bypass prompts.

### -O, --org

|             |                                  |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>              |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_ORGANIZATION</code> |

Select which organization (uuid or name) to use.

### -d, --directory

|         |                     |
|---------|---------------------|
| Type    | <code>string</code> |
| Default | <code>.</code>      |

Specify the directory to create from, use '-' to read tar from stdin.

### --ignore-lockfile

|         |                    |
|---------|--------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code>  |
| Default | <code>false</code> |

Ignore warnings about not having a .terraform.lock.hcl file present in the template.

### -m, --message

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Specify a message describing the changes in this version of the template. Messages longer than 72 characters will be displayed as truncated.

Commit message:

fix(cli): make -y flag properly support non-interactive mode in create
The -y flag was documented as 'Bypass prompts' but only bypassed the final
'Confirm create?' prompt. All other interactive prompts (preset selection,
parameter input, template selection, workspace name) would still appear,
breaking CI/CD and non-interactive usage.

Changes:
- Add isNonInteractive(inv) helper in create.go
- Workspace name: error if not provided with -y
- Template selection: auto-select if exactly 1 template exists, error if multiple
- Preset selection: skip presets entirely (default to none) with -y
- Parameters: use default values automatically, error if required param has no default
- External auth: error immediately if required auth not authenticated
- Update SkipPromptOption() description to accurately describe behavior
- Regenerate golden files for updated flag description

The -y flag now enables true non-interactive mode for `coder create`.

docs/reference/cli/templates_create.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT | GENERATED CONTENT -->
# templates create

DEPRECATED: Create a template from the current directory or as specified by flag

## Usage

```console
coder templates create [flags] [name]
```

## Options

### --private

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Disable the default behavior of granting template access to the 'everyone' group. The template permissions must be updated to allow non-admin users to use this template.

### --variables-file

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Specify a file path with values for Terraform-managed variables.

### --variable

|      |                           |
|------|---------------------------|
| Type | <code>string-array</code> |

Specify a set of values for Terraform-managed variables.

### --var

|      |                           |
|------|---------------------------|
| Type | <code>string-array</code> |

Alias of --variable.

### --provisioner-tag

|      |                           |
|------|---------------------------|
| Type | <code>string-array</code> |

Specify a set of tags to target provisioner daemons.

### --default-ttl

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>24h</code>      |

Specify a default TTL for workspaces created from this template. It is the default time before shutdown - workspaces created from this template default to this value. Maps to "Default autostop" in the UI.

### --failure-ttl

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>0h</code>       |

Specify a failure TTL for workspaces created from this template. It is the amount of time after a failed "start" build before coder automatically schedules a "stop" build to cleanup.This licensed feature's default is 0h (off). Maps to "Failure cleanup"in the UI.

### --dormancy-threshold

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>0h</code>       |

Specify a duration workspaces may be inactive prior to being moved to the dormant state. This licensed feature's default is 0h (off). Maps to "Dormancy threshold" in the UI.

### --dormancy-auto-deletion

|         |                       |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Type    | <code>duration</code> |
| Default | <code>0h</code>       |

Specify a duration workspaces may be in the dormant state prior to being deleted. This licensed feature's default is 0h (off). Maps to "Dormancy Auto-Deletion" in the UI.

### --require-active-version

|         |                    |
|---------|--------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code>  |
| Default | <code>false</code> |

Requires workspace builds to use the active template version. This setting does not apply to template admins. This is an enterprise-only feature. See https://coder.com/docs/admin/templates/managing-templates#require-automatic-updates-enterprise for more details.

### -y, --yes

|      |                   |
|------|-------------------|
| Type | <code>bool</code> |

Run in non-interactive mode. Accepts default values and fails on required inputs.

### -O, --org

|             |                                  |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Type        | <code>string</code>              |
| Environment | <code>$CODER_ORGANIZATION</code> |

Select which organization (uuid or name) to use.

### -d, --directory

|         |                     |
|---------|---------------------|
| Type    | <code>string</code> |
| Default | <code>.</code>      |

Specify the directory to create from, use '-' to read tar from stdin.

### --ignore-lockfile

|         |                    |
|---------|--------------------|
| Type    | <code>bool</code>  |
| Default | <code>false</code> |

Ignore warnings about not having a .terraform.lock.hcl file present in the template.

### -m, --message

|      |                     |
|------|---------------------|
| Type | <code>string</code> |

Specify a message describing the changes in this version of the template. Messages longer than 72 characters will be displayed as truncated.
